docs: Add design proposal to exec checkups in existing ns (#126)
kiagnose/kiagnose: docs/design-proposals/execute_checkup_in_existing_ns.md

Execute Checkups In an Existing Namespace
=

Author: [Orel Misan](https://github.com/orelmisan)

# Summary

Currently, kiagnose creates a dedicated ephemeral [Namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/) object for each checkup it executes.

> The suggested solution is to create user-supplied [ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/) objects in the namespace in which the checkup shall be executed.

Reviewer: I think we should break it to 2 sentences, to make it clearer.
Suggestion:
```suggestion
The suggested solution is for the user to create user-supplied [ConfigMap](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/) objects in a pre-existing namespace. The checkup will then be executed on that namespace.
```

Author: Done.

2. Kiagnose is given permissions to create and delete Namespace objects, which is a pretty high permission.
3. Kiagnose is given permissions to bind ClusterRoles to ServiceAccounts it creates which is a very high permission as well.

One motivation is to mitigate the downsides of having checkups execution in ephemeral namespaces.
Another motivation is to give checkups the ability to use pre-existing objects in their namespace, such as NetworkAttachmentDefinition objects.

## Goal

Optionally execute a checkup in an existing namespace.

# Proposal

## Definition of Personas
- Kubernetes cluster administrators.

## User Stories
As a K8s cluster administrator:
- I want to create a checkup configuration, in the target namespace, in order to configure the checkup.
- I want to create a Kiagnose Job in the `kiagnose` namespace, so Kiagnose shall execute the checkup.
- I want to be able to monitor and observe if the checkup is undergoing or finished.
- I need to manually verify that the checkup had cleaned after itself.

## API Extensions
### Checkup Interface

> A checkup shall be required to mark all objects created by it, in order to help users recognize leftover objects.

Reviewer: can we force this in any way?

Author: I'm not sure.
We'll need to investigate it.

Reviewer 2: The only way I can think of making sure it does it, is to certify checkups in namespaces we know exactly what exists and therefore can scan/track the created objects in it.

At the moment, I think this is not in our scope.

This also has several downsides as well:
1. Checkups cannot use pre-existing objects in their namespace, so they have to be given permissions to read them from other namespaces (for example NetworkAttachmentDefinition objects).
2. Kiagnose is given permissions to create and delete Namespace objects, which is a pretty high permission.
3. Kiagnose is given permissions to bind ClusterRoles to ServiceAccounts it creates which is a very high permission as well.

One motivation is to mitigate the downsides of having checkups execution in ephemeral namespaces.
Another motivation is to give checkups the ability to use pre-existing objects in their namespace, such as NetworkAttachmentDefinition objects.

## Goal

Optionally execute a checkup in an existing namespace.

# Proposal

## Definition of Personas
- Kubernetes cluster administrators.

## User Stories
As a K8s cluster administrator:
- I want to create a checkup configuration, in the target namespace, in order to configure the checkup.
- I want to create a Kiagnose Job in the `kiagnose` namespace, so Kiagnose shall execute the checkup.
- I want to be able to monitor and observe if the checkup is undergoing or finished.

> - I need to manually verify that the checkup had cleaned after itself.

Author: That's right.
A checkup will have the permissions to interact / create objects in the target namespace.

> - I need to manually verify that the checkup had cleaned after itself.

Reviewer 3: It doesn't make sense to me that Kiagnose needs to clean after the checkup (delete objects the checkup created).
Given that at any point in time, the checkup could create a new object (e.g: pod) the target namespace, 
how is it going to be enforced?

> - I need to manually verify that the checkup had cleaned after itself.

Author: There is no sentence saying that Kiagnose shall clean after the checkup.

> - I need to manually verify that the checkup had cleaned after itself.

Reviewer 3: Sorry for the noise I got it wrong.

## API Extensions
### Checkup Interface
A checkup shall be required to mark all objects created by it, in order to help users recognize leftover objects.

> ## Additional Required Permissions

Author: > I suggest changing this section in a way it will also describe the permission Kiagnose will no longer need.

Because the ephemeral namespace feature stays, we cannot remove permissions (yet).

> Also, I think it's worth mentioning that the permissions to the ConfigMap and ServiceAccount can be granted to change concrete objects (and not any object of these types).

Kiagnose has to be able to delete any `ConfigMap` or `ServiceAccount` in order to perform its teardown correctly.

> Kiagnose should be given “delete” permissions of the following objects:

Reviewer 3: nit: given -> granted with.

Author: Done.

1. ConfigMap - in order to remove the results ConfigMap object.
2. ServiceAccount.

## Logic Changes
If the `CONFIGMAP_NAMESPACE` environment variable is not equal to `kiagnose`:
1. The value of `CONFIGMAP_NAMESPACE` shall be considered as the target namespace's name.
2. Kiagnose shall create all the required objects for the checkup in the target namespace.
3. The checkup’s teardown shall include deletion the following objects:
   - Results ConfigMap.
   - RoleBindings.
   - Role.
   - ServiceAccount.

> 4. Kiagnose shall not delete a non-ephemeral namespace.

Author: It is a requirement for Kiagnose to not delete a non-ephemeral namespace.
There are two places where a namespace is deleted:
1. If an error had occurred during the setup stage (after namespace creation).
2. During the teardown stage.

> 4. Kiagnose shall not delete a non-ephemeral namespace.

Reviewer 3: Right, but the way it is now with the numbering makes me think it's one of the steps of the new logic.

> 4. Kiagnose shall not delete a non-ephemeral namespace.

Reviewer 2: It is a nit, I do not think it is worth blocking on this.
